The Project Gutenberg eBook of A Catalogue of Remarkable Books
published by Mr. George Redway (1887), by Arthur Edward Waite

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: A Catalogue of Remarkable Books published by Mr. George Redway
       (1887)

Author: Arthur Edward Waite

Release Date: February 12, 2023 [eBook #70028]

Language: English

Produced by: deaurider, PrimeNumber and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A CATALOGUE OF REMARKABLE
BOOKS PUBLISHED BY MR. GEORGE REDWAY (1887) ***





  A

  CATALOGUE

  OF

  REMARKABLE BOOKS

  PUBLISHED BY

  MR. GEORGE REDWAY

  “_TOLLE, LEGE_”

  LONDON
  15, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN
  1887




[Illustration]




_Handsomely printed and bound in one vol. 8vo., price 10s. 6d._

KABALA DENUDATA.

THE KABBALA UNVEILED.

CONTAINING THE FOLLOWING BOOKS OF THE ZOHAR:--

  1. _The Book of Concealed Mystery._
  2. _The Greater Holy Assembly._
  3. _The Lesser Holy Assembly._

Translated into English from the Latin version of KNORR VON ROSENROTH,
and collated with the original Chaldee and Hebrew Text, by S. L.
MACGREGOR MATHERS.

  “We have seen that the Therapeuts listened every Sabbath to
  discourses on the traditionary lore which was handed down in secret
  amongst themselves. HAS THIS SECRET LORE PASSED AWAY FROM THE EARTH?
  Scholars of the calibre of Reuchlin Joel and M. Franck, of the
  Institute of France, affirm that we have it still in the ‘Kabbalah.’
  This word implies secret tradition. The legend runs that this secret
  wisdom was first taught by Jehovah to the seven angels that stand
  round his throne. It was then handed down orally through the seven
  earthly messengers (Adam, Moses, David, &c.). Finally, the Rabbi
  Simon Ben Jochai, in a cavern amid earth rocking and supernatural
  coruscations delivered it to the world in a “BOOK OF SPLENDOUR,” THE
  “SOHAR.”--Arthur Lillie’s “Buddhism in Christendom” (1887).

  Dr. Ginsburg speaks of the Kabbalah as:--“A system of religious
  philosophy, or, more properly, of theosophy, which has not only
  exercised for hundreds of years an extraordinary influence on the
  mental development of so shrewd a people as the Jews, but has
  captivated the minds of some of the greatest thinkers of Christendom
  in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, claims the greatest
  attention of both the philosopher and theologian. When it is added
  that among its captives were Raymond Lully, the celebrated scholastic
  metaphysician and chemist (died 1315); John Reuchlin, the renowned
  scholar and reviver of Oriental literature in Europe (born 1455, died
  1522); John Picus de Mirandola, the famous philosopher and classical
  scholar (1463-1494); Cornelius Henry Agrippa, the distinguished
  philosopher, divine, and physician (1577-1644); as well as our own
  countrymen, Robert Fludd, the famous physician and philosopher
  (1574-1637), and Dr. Henry More (1614-1687); and that these men,
  after restlessly searching for a scientific system which should
  disclose to them ‘the deepest depths’ of the divine nature, and show
  them the real tie which binds all things together, found the cravings
  of their minds satisfied by this theosophy, the claims of the
  Kabbalah on the attention of students in literature and philosophy
  will readily be admitted. The claims of the Kabbalah, however, are
  not restricted to the literary man and the philosopher; the poet,
  too, will find in it ample materials for the exercise of his lofty
  genius.”




_In crown 8vo., cloth, price 7s. 6d._

POSTHUMOUS HUMANITY:

A STUDY OF PHANTOMS.

By ADOLPHE D’ASSIER, Member of the Bordeaux Academy of Sciences.
Translated and annotated by HENRY S. OLCOTT, President of the
Theosophical Society. To which is added an Appendix showing the popular
beliefs current in India respecting the post-mortem vicissitudes of the
human entity.

Contents:--Facts establishing the existence of the posthumous
personality in man--Its various modes of manifestation--Facts
establishing the existence of a second personality in the living
man--Its various modes of manifestation--Facts establishing
the existence of the personality in animals, and concerning a
posthumous animality--Fluidic form of vegetables--Fluidic form
of gross bodies--Character of the posthumous being--Its physical
constitution--Its aversion to light--Its reservoir of living
force--Its ballistic--The nervous fluid--Electric animals--Electric
persons--Electric plants--The mesmeric ether and the personality
which it engenders--The somnambule--The sleep-talker--The seer--The
turning-table--The talking-table--The medium--Miracles of the
ecstatics--Prodigy of magic--The incubus--The obsessing spirit--Causes
of the rarity of the living phantom--Causes of the rarity of the
trans-sepulchral phantom--Resemblance of the spiritistic phenomena
to the phenomena of the posthumous order--Lycanthropy--Glance at the
fauna of the shades--Their pre-occupations--How they prolong their
existence--The posthumous vampire.




_In demy 8vo., cloth, price 10s. 6d._

INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF MADAME BLAVATSKY,

Compiled from information supplied by her relatives and friends, and
edited by A. P. SINNETT, with a portrait reproduced from an original
painting by HERMANN SCHMIECHEN.

  “Mr. Sinnett’s memoir is fluently written, and is free from
  unsympathetic scepticism. Theosophists will find both edification and
  interest in the book; and the general student of science will profit
  more or less by having his attention called to, &c....”--_Pall Mall
  Gazette._

  “Mr. Sinnett, however, offers on all the disputed points explanations
  which will be perfectly satisfactory to those who do not agree with
  the committee of the Psychical Society.”--_Pall Mall Gazette._

  “For any credulous friend who revels in such stories I can recommend
  ‘Incidents in the Life of Madame Blavatsky.’ I READ EVERY LINE OF THE
  BOOK WITH MUCH INTEREST.”--_Truth._




_In post 8vo., with numerous plates coloured and plain, cloth, price
7s. 6d._

GEOMETRICAL PSYCHOLOGY;

OR, THE SCIENCE OF REPRESENTATION.

Being the Theories and Diagrams of B. W. BETTS explained by LOUISA S.
COOK.

  “His attempt seems to have taken a similar direction to that of
  George Boole in logic, with the difference that, whereas Boole’s
  expression of the Laws of Thought is algebraic, Betts expresses
  mind-growth geometrically; that is to say, his growth-formulæ
  are expressed in numerical series, of which each can be pictured
  to the eye in a corresponding curve. When the series are thus
  represented, they are found to resemble the forms of leaves and
  flowers.”--_Extract from “Symbolic Methods of Study,” by Mary Boole._

  The _Pall Mall Gazette_, in a characteristic article entitled, “Very
  Methodical Madness,” allows that “Like Rosicrucianism, esoteric
  Buddhism, and other forms of the mystically incomprehensible, it
  seems to exercise a magnetic influence upon many minds by no means as
  foolish as its original inventor’s.”

  “This work is the result of more than twenty years’ application to
  the discovery of a method of representing human consciousness in its
  various stages of development by means of geometrical figures--it is,
  in fact, the application of mathematical symbology to metaphysics.
  This idea will be new to many of our readers; indeed, so far as
  we know, Mr. Betts is the only man who has tried to work out a
  coherent system of this kind, though his work unfortunately remains
  imperfect.”--_Theosophist_, June, 1887.




_In demy 8vo., cloth, price 10s. 6d._

THE MYSTERIES OF MAGIC;

A Digest of the Writings of Eliphas Levi, with Biographical and
Critical Essay by ARTHUR EDWARD WAITE.

  “A very curious book.”--_Time._

  “To the rapidly-extending catalogue of remarkable books published by
  Mr. George Redway, of London, an important addition has been made by
  the issue of a digest of the writings of Eliphas Levi. Many people,
  we dare say, will consider the volume to be ‘full of nonsense,’
  but it is really a very curious and improving work, going over a
  vast space of ground, and presenting a great deal of matter that
  is worth thinking over. The author has earned a title to be heard.
  As a contribution to what is called ‘occult science,’ the present
  book will, of course, find a welcome from many readers, among those
  especially whose passion it is to grope for the unseen, and to these
  the varied contents will give delight. The matter contained in Mr.
  Waite’s volume is wonderfully varied, and much of it worth reading,
  even by those who do not believe in magic of any kind, black or
  white.”--_Glasgow Herald._

  “No determined student of Nature’s higher mysteries, setting out
  from the standpoint of modern European culture, can afford to remain
  ignorant of Eliphas Levi’s works. But to study them in the original
  is a wearisome task, if for no other reason, on account of their
  aggregate length. The present single volume is a digest of half a
  dozen books enumerated by the present author in a ‘biographical
  and critical essay’ with which he prefaces his undertaking. These
  are the _Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magie_, the _Histoire de la
  Magie_, the _Clef des Grands Mystères_, the _Sorcier de Meudon_, the
  _Philosophie Occulte_, and the _Science des Esprits_. To attack the
  whole series--which, indeed, it might be difficult to obtain now
  in a complete form--would be a bold undertaking, but Mr. Waite has
  endeavoured to give his readers the essence of the whole six books in
  a relatively compact compass.”--_Light._

  “Let no man think that such transcendental mysteries as the
  astrologer and the magician plunge into have disappeared from
  the face of the earth. Their votaries defy derision, they meet
  contempt with a calm consciousness of power, and a sublime sense of
  superiority; for in this generation the magicians have found a new
  prophet, a new hierophant--almost a new gospel.... Meanwhile, lest
  our readers should suppose that the modern students of the science of
  magic are not in deadly earnest, or that they are few in number or
  poor in substance, let them, with all due awe and thankfulness, buy
  this handsome volume, and as they open it let them cast a glance at
  the amazing list of works published and publishing by a single firm
  on the various branches of the occult sciences. Having done that, let
  them ask themselves whether some forms of faith--for we dare not drop
  a hint of disrespect--do not die hard.”--_Athenæum, Aug. 6th, 1887._




_12mo., cloth, 2s._

NATURE AND LAW.

An Answer to PROFESSOR DRUMMOND’S “Natural Law in the Spiritual World.”

  Professor Drummond subordinates the Spiritual universe to the
  Material; the author of “Nature and Law” sustains a thesis
  diametrically opposed to this. His conclusion is “that there is more
  of heaven than of earth in all terrestrial things, more of spirit
  than of matter in what are termed material laws.”




_Post free, price 3d._

THE LITERATURE OF OCCULTISM AND ARCHÆOLOGY.

Being a Catalogue of Books ON SALE relating to:--

Ancient Worships.--Astrology.--Alchemy.--Animal
Magnetism.--Anthropology.--Arabic.--Assassins.--Antiquities.--Ancient
History.--Behmen and the
Mystics.--Buddhism.--Clairvoyance.--Cabeiri.--China.--Coins.--Druids.--
Dreams and Visions.--Divination.--Divining
Rod.--Demonology.--Ethnology.--Egypt.--Fascination.--Flagellants.--
Freemasonry.--Folk-Lore.--Gnostics.--Gems.--Ghosts.--Hindus.--
Hieroglyphics and Secret Writing.--Herbals.--Hermetic.--India and the
Hindus.--Kabbala.--Koran.--Miracles.--Mirabilaries.--Magic
and Magicians.--Mysteries.--Mithraic
Worship.--Mesmerism.--Mythology.--Metaphysics.--Mysticism.--
Neo-platonism.--Orientalia.--Obelisks.--Oracles.--Occult Sciences.--
Philology.--Persian.--Parsees.--Philosophy.--Physiognomy.--Palmistry and
Handwriting.--Phrenology.--Psychoneurology.--Psychometry.--Prophets.--
Rosicrucians.--Round Towers.--Rabbinical.--Spiritualism.--Skeptics,
Jesuits, Christians and Quakers.--Sibylls.--Symbolism.--Serpent Worship.
--Secret Societies.--Somnambulism.--Travels.--Tombs.--Theosophy.--
Theology and Criticism.--Witchcraft.




_Monthly. Subscription, 10s. per annum._

THE PATH:

A Magazine devoted to the Brotherhood of Humanity, Theosophy in
America, and the Study of Occult Science, Philosophy, and Aryan
Literature. Edited by WILLIAM Q. JUDGE. Published under the auspices of
The Aryan Theosophical Society of New York.




_Price 1s. monthly._

“LUCIFER:”

A Theosophical Monthly, designed to bring light “to the hidden things
of darkness” on both the physical and psychic planes of life. Edited by
H. P. BLAVATSKY and MABEL COLLINS.

This Magazine is published with a dual purpose. The first is to
direct the searching light of impartial truth on the dark problems of
human life, chiefly on the present psychic and spiritual state of our
cultured classes throughout Europe and America. The second is to apply
it fearlessly as a dissecting knife to every prejudice, whether social
or religious, and as a microscope by which to reveal the hidden essence
underlying external appearances, the accepted routine of life, forms
of accustomed thought, existing institutions, sciences, and creeds.
The true light-bearer is at war with no man; but it is his duty to
serve humanity by opposing and denouncing everything which tends to
hypocrisy, egotism, and the hurt of the many for the gain of the few.
“LUCIFER” will endeavour to carry out this duty to the full. This is
the secondary task which falls to the lot of all who oppose the dark
serried mass of materialists. But the primary one, and that which in
this Magazine will always take the first place, is that of applying
theosophic thought to the problems of life. There are things which can
only be scrutinized to any effectual purpose by the application of a
higher knowledge than that which is sufficient to deal with external
facts. The Editors have the courage to undertake so great an effort
as the launching of this Magazine because they have promise and good
earnest of help, from those who possess that higher knowledge, and
who consider the time is ripe for truths, which have existed from all
ages, to be born again in the minds of men. The best known students
of mysticism and occult philosophy will contribute to its pages,
while fiction, the mirror of life, will be used to reveal some of the
marvellous phases of existence. The attempt will be not merely to
promote the comprehension of inner truths and mysteries connected with
the spiritual progress of humanity, but to show that occult philosophy
may shed a new light on the practical conduct of our destinies in their
relation with the physical world.




_Monthly, 2s.; yearly subscription, 20s._

THE THEOSOPHIST:

A Magazine of Oriental Philosophy, Art, Literature and Occultism.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY. Vols. I. to VIII. now ready.

  “Theosophy has suddenly risen to importance.... The movement implied
  by the term Theosophy is one that cannot be adequately explained
  in a few words ... those interested in the movement, which is not
  to be confounded with spiritualism, will find means of gratifying
  their curiosity by procuring the back numbers of ‘The Theosophist’
  and a very remarkable book called ‘Isis Unveiled,’ by Madame
  Blavatsky.”--_Literary World._




_Demy 8vo., wrapper, price 1s._

THE HANDBOOK OF PHYSIOGNOMY.

By ROSA BAUGHAN.

  “The merit of her book consists in the admirable clearness of her
  descriptions of faces. So vivid is the impression produced by them
  that she is able to dispense with illustrations, the reader using the
  faces of his acquaintances for that purpose. The classification, too,
  is good, although the astrological headings may be regarded by the
  profane as fanciful. Physiognomy may now be scientifically studied by
  means of composite photography.”--_Pall Mall Gazette._




_Fourth edition, newly revised, with illustrative plates, price 1s._

THE HANDBOOK OF PALMISTRY.

By ROSA BAUGHAN, author of “Indications of Character in Handwriting.”

  “It possesses a certain literary interest, for Miss Baughan
  shows the connection between palmistry and the doctrines of the
  Kabbala.”--_Graphic._

  “Miss Rosa Baughan, for many years known as one of the most expert
  proficients in this branch of science, has as much claim to
  consideration as any writer on the subject.”--_Sussex Daily News._

  “People who wish to believe in palmistry, or the science of reading
  character from the marks of the hand,” says the _Daily News_, in an
  article devoted to the discussion of this topic, “will be interested
  in a handbook of the subject by Miss Baughan, published by Mr.
  Redway.”




_Nos. 3 to 13, and each succeeding number as issued, may be had, price
1s._

TRANSACTIONS OF THE LONDON LODGE OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY:

  Nos. 1 and 2.--Out of print.
  No. 3--On the Higher Aspect of Theosophic Studies. By MOHINI M
        CHATTERJI.
  No. 4.--A Synopsis of Baron Du Prel’s “Philosophie der Mystik.” By
        BERTRAM KEIGHTLEY.
  No. 5.--A Paper on Reincarnation. By Miss ARUNDALE. And other
        Proceedings.
  No. 6.--The Theosophical Movement. By A. P. SINNETT.
  No. 7.--The Higher Self. By A. P. SINNETT.
  No. 8.--The Theosophical Society and its Work. By MOHINI M. CHATTERJI.
  No. 9.--A Paper on Krishna. By MOHINI M. CHATTERJI.
  No. 10.--On Mesmerism. By A. P. SINNETT.
  No. 11.--Theosophy in the Works of Richard Wagner. By W. ASHTON ELLIS.
  No. 12.--Buddha’s Teaching. By A. P. SINNETT.
  No. 13.--The Relations of the Higher and the Lower Self. By A. P.
        SINNETT.




_Printed on antique paper and tastefully bound, price 7s. 6d._

THE ASTROLOGER’S GUIDE.

ANIMA ASTROLOGIÆ;

OR, A GUIDE FOR ASTROLOGERS.

Being the One Hundred and Forty-six Considerations of the Astrologer,
GUIDO BONATUS, translated from the Latin by Henry Coley, together with
the choicest Aphorisms of the Seven Segments of JEROM CARDAN, of Milan,
edited by William Lilly (1675); now first republished from the original
edition with Notes and Preface by W. C. ELDON SERJEANT.

  “Mr. Serjeant deserves the thanks of all who are interested in
  astrology for rescuing this important work from oblivion.... The
  growing interest in mystical science will lead to a revival of
  astrological study, and advanced students will find this book an
  indispensable addition to their libraries. The book is well got up
  and printed.”--_Theosophist._




_In post 4to., illustrated with engravings on wood, most chastely bound
in white vellum, price 10s. 6d._

ASTROLOGY THEOLOGIZED.

THE SPIRITUAL HERMENEUTICS OF ASTROLOGY AND HOLY WRIT.

Being a Treatise upon the Influence of the Stars on Man, and on the
Art of Ruling them by the Law of Grace. Reprinted from the Original of
1649. With a Prefatory Essay on Bible Hermeneutics. By ANNA KINGSFORD,
M.D., Paris.

  “It is well for Dr. Anna Kingsford that she was not born into the
  sidereal world four hundred years ago. Had that been her sorry fate,
  she would assuredly have been burned at the stake for her preface to
  ‘Astrology Theologized.’ It is a very long preface--more than half
  the length of the treatise it introduces; it contains some of the
  finest flowers of Theosophical philosophy, and of course makes very
  short work of Christianity.”--_St. James’s Gazette._

  “Mrs. Kingsford, amid many things which we do not understand, and
  some few which we think we comprehend afar off, gives a more detailed
  analysis of ghosts than we remember to have met with in any of the
  ancient hermetic writers.”--_St. James’s Gazette._

  “The only pleasing features of the book are the reproductions of a
  number of beautiful symbolical figures with which it is illustrated.
  That on p. 28, representing Christ surrounded by an elliptical glory
  and carried up to heaven by angels, is taken from an illuminated
  manuscript of the fourteenth century in the Bibliothèque Royale;
  and the figure of the Virgin in an aureole, on p. 94, is from a
  tenth-century illuminated manuscript in the same library. Some of
  the figures here reproduced are among the finest things in Christian
  iconography.”--_St. James’s Gazette._




_Small 4to., with illustrations, bound in vegetable parchment, price
10s. 6d._

THE VIRGIN OF THE WORLD.

By HERMES MERCURIUS TRISMEGISTUS. A Treatise on Initiations, or
Asclepios; the Definitions of Asclepios; Fragments of the Writings of
Hermes. Translated and edited by the authors of “The Perfect Way.” With
an Introduction to “The Virgin of the World” by A. K., and an Essay on
“The Hermetic Books” by E. M.

  “It will be a most interesting study for every occultist to compare
  the doctrines of the ancient Hermetic philosophy with the teaching of
  the Vedantic and Buddhist systems of religious thought. The famous
  books of Hermes seem to occupy, with reference to the Egyptian
  religion, the same position which the Upanishads occupy in Aryan
  religious literature.”--_Theosophist_, November, 1885.




_Just published, 32 pages, wrapper, price 1s._

THE NEW ILLUMINATION.

By EDWARD MAITLAND, author of “The Pilgrim and the Shrine.”

Contents:--The Revival of Mysticism.--The “Modus” of
Illumination.--Cyclical Illuminations.--Propositions
Involved.--Previous Illuminations.--The Obscuration.--The New
Illumination.--The Crucial Tests.--Further Tokens.




_In crown 8vo., price 7s. 6d._

MAGIC, WHITE AND BLACK;

OR, THE SCIENCE OF FINITE AND INFINITE LIFE.

Containing Practical Hints for Students of Occultism, by FRANZ
HARTMANN, M.D. Illustrated with magical signs, and a symbolical
frontispiece etched by MACKANESS, from a design by the Author.




_Post 8vo., cloth, price 10s. 6d._

THE LIFE OF PHILIPPUS THEOPHRASTUS, BOMBAST OF HOHENHEIM, KNOWN BY THE
NAME OF

PARACELSUS,

And the substance of his teachings concerning Cosmology, Anthropology,
Pneumatology, Magic and Sorcery, Medicine, Alchemy and Astrology,
Theosophy and Philosophy. Extracted and translated from his rare
and extensive works and from some unpublished Manuscripts, by FRANZ
HARTMANN, M.D., author of “Magic,” &c.

  “Paracelsus was a high priest among mystics and alchemists; he left
  behind him one hundred and six treatises upon medical and occult
  subjects, which are likely to be read by the curious as long as
  mysticism remains a necessary study for whoever would trace the
  developments of civilization.

  “From some considerable acquaintance with the writings of Paracelsus,
  we can say that Dr. Hartmann has made his excerpts from them with a
  good deal of skill. Students, indeed, should be grateful for this
  book, despite its setting of Theosophical nonsense; since to read
  one of Bombast’s Latin or German treatises is a very stiff exercise
  indeed, unless you are well versed in his very recondite terminology.

  “Dr. Hartmann has compiled a very full and accurate glossary of
  occult terms, which will be of great use to future readers of
  Paracelsus; and for so much he is to be thanked.

  “Dr. Hartmann quotes some of his recipes for transmuting metals
  and producing the ‘electrum magicum.’ But Paracelsus is the most
  transcendental of European mystics, and it is not always easy to know
  when he is writing allegorically and when practically. Dr. Hartmann
  says he has tried these prescriptions and found them all right;
  but he warns the uninitiated against running the risk of blowing
  themselves up in the endeavour to follow the master’s instructions.

  “Paracelsus held firmly to the belief of some of the hermetic writers
  of the Middle Ages, that it is perfectly possible to create human
  beings by alchemical means; and he even gives directions (in his
  treatise ‘De Natura Rerum’) for the production of homunculi.

  “On the whole, however, Dr. Hartmann has produced a very amusing book
  and a book which will have some permanent value to the student of the
  occult.”--_St. James’s Gazette._




_64 pp., 8vo., wrapper, price 1s. 6d._

THE “OCCULT WORLD PHENOMENA,”

AND THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.

By A. P. SINNETT, with a Protest by MADAME BLAVATSKY.

  “An interesting addition to the fast-expanding literature of
  Theosophy.”--_Literary World._

  “All who are interested in Theosophy should read it.”--_Glasgow
  Herald._

  “Mr. Sinnett scores some points against his adversary, and his
  pamphlet is to be followed by some memoirs of Madame Blavatsky, which
  may contain further refutations. Madame Blavatsky herself appends to
  the pamphlet a brief and indignant denial of the grave charges which
  have been made against her.”--_Graphic._




_In crown 8vo., cloth, price 7s. 6d._

THEOSOPHY, RELIGION, AND OCCULT SCIENCE.

By HENRY S. OLCOTT, President of the Theosophical Society.

  “This book, to which we can only allot an amount of space quite
  incommensurate with its intrinsic interest, is one that will appeal
  to the prepared student rather than to the general reader. To
  anyone who has previously made the acquaintance of such books as
  Mr. Sinnett’s ‘Occult World,’ and ‘Esoteric Buddhism,’ or has in
  other ways familiarized himself with the doctrines of the so-called
  Theosophical Society or Brotherhood, these lectures of Colonel
  Olcott’s will be rich in interest and suggestiveness. The American
  officer is a person of undoubted social position and unblemished
  personal reputation, and his main object is not to secure belief in
  the reality of any ‘phenomena,’ not to win a barren reputation for
  himself as a thaumaturgist or wonder-worker, but to win acceptance
  for one of the oldest philosophies of nature and human life--a
  philosophy to which of late years the thinkers of the West have been
  turning with noteworthy curiosity and interest. Of course, should
  the genuineness of the phenomena in question be satisfactorily
  established, there would undoubtedly be proof that the Eastern sages
  to whom Colonel Olcott bears witness do possess a knowledge of the
  laws of the physical universe far wider and more intimate than that
  which has been laboriously acquired by the inductive science of
  the West; but the theosophy expounded in this volume is at once a
  theology, a metaphysic, and a sociology, in which mere marvels, as
  such, occupy a quite subordinate and unimportant position. We cannot
  now discuss its claims, and we will not pronounce any opinion upon
  them; we will only say that Colonel Olcott’s volume deserves and will
  repay the study of all readers for whom the byways of speculation
  have an irresistible charm.”--_Manchester Examiner._




_In crown 8vo., cloth, price 6s._

A PROFESSOR OF ALCHEMY

(DENIS ZACHAIRE).

By PERCY ROSS, author of “A Comedy without Laughter” and “A Misguidit
Lassie.”

The above work is not so much a novel as a study in alchemy. Its
incident and detail, with a few exceptions, are not fiction but fact,
being drawn from contemporary works, including Denis Zachaire’s own
“Opusculum.”




_In 2 vols., crown 8vo., cloth, price 10s. 6d._

UNITED.

By A. P. SINNETT.

  “Mr. Sinnett’s previous works on ‘Esoteric Buddhism’ and ‘The
  Occult World’ in some way prepare the reader for the marvellous
  psychological phenomena with which the present volumes abound, and
  which cannot fail to have an irresistible charm for all those who
  love the byways of speculation.”--_Literary World._

  “There is, nevertheless, a weird attractiveness about ‘United’ which
  makes even the non-believer in theosophy loth to put down the book
  when once he has taken it up; while to the lovers of occult phenomena
  it will prove irresistibly fascinating.”--_Literary World._

  “Literary ability is evident throughout the book.”--_St. James’s
  Gazette._

  “It would be difficult to point to a more earnest writer than Mr.
  Sinnett, and all he says invariably carries force and weight.... The
  book has a power of its own which compels respect, and Mr. Sinnett is
  so much the same as he always is, so eager and sincere in expounding
  the mysteries in which he is a fervent believer, that one seems to
  be inspired with some of the curious fascination of his teaching....
  In spite of all the improbable and weird fancies which have to be
  accepted by the student of the occult religion, it should always be
  borne in mind that its tenets are eminently elevating and beautiful;
  that it appeals to the best side of our nature.... But all is vague
  confusion to the uninitiated, and it has to be reluctantly admitted
  that if attracted one is sadly dazzled by the perusal of such a
  couple of volumes as ‘United.’ The purpose of ‘United’ is a good
  one; it is written with marked ability, and the story is pleasantly
  related in the happy vein of a characteristic author.”--_Morning
  Advertiser_, Dec. 31st, 1886.




_Bound in fancy cloth, uncut edges, price 2s._

TOBACCO TALK AND SMOKERS’ GOSSIP.

An amusing Miscellany of Fact and Anecdote relating to “The Great
Plant” in all its forms and uses, including a Selection from Nicotian
Literature.

CONTENTS:--A Tobacco Parliament--Napoleon’s First Pipe--A Dutch Poet
and Napoleon’s Snuff-Box--Frederick the Great as an Ass--Too Small for
Two--A Smoking Empress--The Smoking Princesses--An Incident on the
G.W.R.--Raleigh’s Tobacco Box--Bismarck’s Last Cigar--Bismarck’s Cigar
Story--Moltke’s Pound of Snuff--Lord Brougham as a Smoker--Mazzini’s
Sang-froid as a Smoker--Lord Clarendon as a Smoker--Politics and
Snuff-Boxes--Penn and Tobacco--Tobacco and the Papacy--The Snuff-Mull
in the Scotch Kirk--Whately as a Snuff-Taker--The First Bishop
who Smoked--Pigs and Smokers--Jesuits’ Snuff--Kemble Pipes--An
Ingenious Smoker--Anecdote of Dean Aldrich--Smoking to the Glory of
God--Professor Huxley on Smoking--Blucher’s Pipe-Master--Shakespeare
and Tobacco--Ben Jonson on Tobacco--Lord Byron on Tobacco--Décamps and
Horace Vernet--Milton’s Pipe--Anecdote of Sir Isaac Newton--Emerson
and Carlyle--Paley and his Pipe--Jules Sandeau on the Cigar--The
Pickwick of Fleet Street--The _Obsequio_ of Havana--The Social
Pipe (_Thackeray_)--Triumph of Tobacco over Sack and Ale--The
Smoking Philosopher--Sam Slick on the Virtues of a Pipe--Smoking in
1610--Bulwer-Lytton on Tobacco-Smoking--Professor Sedgwick--St. Pierre
on the Effect of Tobacco--Ode to Tobacco (_C. S. Calverley_)--Meat and
Drink (_Charles Kingsley_)--The Meerschaum (_O. W. Holmes_)--Charles
Kingsley at Eversley--Robert Burns’s Snuff-box--Robinson Crusoe’s
Tobacco--Guizot--Victor Hugo--Mr. Buckle as a Smoker--Carlyle on
Tobacco--A Poet’s Pipe (_Baudelaire_)--A Pipe of Tobacco--The
Headsman’s Snuff-box--The Pipe and Snuff-box (_Cowper_)--Anecdote
of Charles Lamb--Gibbon as a Snuff-Taker--Charles Lamb as a
Smoker--Farewell to Tobacco (_Chas. Lamb_)--The Power of Smoke
(_Thackeray_)--Thackeray as a Smoker--Dickens as a Smoker--Chewing
and Spitting in America--Tennyson as a Smoker--A Smoker’s Opinion
of Venice--Coleridge’s First Pipe--Richard Porson--Cruikshank and
Tobacco--Mr. James Payn--Mr. Swinburne on Raleigh--The Anti-Tobacco
Party--“This Indian Weed”--Dr. Abernethy on Snuff-Taking--Abernethy
and a Smoking Patient--Tobacco and the Plague--“The Greatest
Tobacco-Stopper in all England”--Dr. Richardson on Tobacco--Advice
to Smokers--Some Strange Smokers--The Etymology of Tobacco--The
Snuff called “Irish Blackguard”--A Snuff-Maker’s Sign--Mr. Sala’s
Cigar-Shop--Death of the “Yard of Clay”--A Prodigious Smoker--A
Professor of Smoking--Tobacco in Time of War--Ages attained by Great
Smokers--A Maiden’s Wish--“Those Dreadful Cigars”--How to take a Pinch
of Snuff--The Tobacco Plant--Fate of an Early Smoker--Adding Insult
to Injury--Tom Brown on Smoking--The Snuff-Taker--Tobacco in North
America--National Characteristics--Smoking at School--Carlyle on “The
Veracities”--Children’s Pipes--The Uses of Cigar Ash--An Inveterate
Smoker--A Tough Yarn--Some French Smokers--Riddles for Smokers--Cigar
Manufacturing in Havana.

  “One of the best books of gossip we have met for some time.... It is
  literally crammed full from beginning to end of its 148 pages with
  well-selected anecdotes, poems, and excerpts from tobacco literature
  and history.”--_Graphic._

  “The smoker should be grateful to the compilers of this pretty little
  volume.... No smoker should be without it, and anti-tobacconists have
  only to turn over its leaves to be converted.”--_Pall Mall Gazette._

  “Something to please smokers; and non-smokers may be interested in
  tracing the effect of tobacco--the fatal, fragrant herb--on our
  literature.”--_Literary World._




_In crown 8vo., cloth, price 5s._

THE HISTORY OF TITHES.

By H. W. CLARKE.

  “We have no hesitation in saying that he has produced the best
  book of moderate size yet published for the purpose of enabling an
  ordinary reader to thoroughly understand the origin and history of
  this ancient impost.... The author gives a great deal of interesting
  information concerning the planting and growth of Christianity in
  these islands, the origin of parishes, and the founding and endowment
  of parish churches.... Mr. Clarke declares himself in his book to be
  a member of the Church of England. He thus writes in no spirit of
  hostility to her. But he rightly uses very plain language in giving
  his opinion on the wilful distortion of facts by Church writers
  aiming to defend their Church.... No one who wishes thoroughly to
  understand the history of tithes should be without this book. It will
  well repay perusal as a book of ecclesiastical history apart from its
  special object.”--_Literary World._

  “The change of front which the defenders of the Church have been
  executing in the face of the enemy has exposed them to some awkward
  attacks, and Mr. Clarke has no doubt seized on a weak point in the
  line which seems to have been now adopted. Nor must we take leave
  of Mr. Clarke without praising his twelfth chapter, which contains
  an impartial and valuable array of facts and figures, which should
  be read by all who are interested in the solution of the tithe
  problem.”--_Athenæum_, July, 1887.




_Demy 8vo., cloth, price 7s. 6d._

THE LIFE, TIMES, AND WRITINGS OF THOMAS CRANMER, D.D.

(The first Reforming Archbishop of Canterbury).

By CHARLES HASTINGS COLLETTE.

_In small 8vo., cloth, price 5s._

  “Mr. Collette brings to his task both breadth and depth of knowledge,
  and a desire to be scrupulously free from prejudice. That he
  will please every reader is not to be expected, but it will be
  generally admitted that he has made every effort to arrive at and
  record the truth, nothing extenuating nor setting down aught in
  malice.”--_Globe_, Aug. 19th.




_Small 8vo., cloth, price 5s._

MOUNTAINEERING BELOW THE SNOW-LINE;

OR, THE SOLITARY PEDESTRIAN IN SNOWDONIA AND ELSEWHERE.

By M. PATERSON, illustrated with etchings.

  _Vanity Fair_ says:--“Mr. Paterson writes charmingly of a charming
  subject. He is a cultured and an athletic man, and tells of the
  climbs he has done in nervous, descriptive English. He confesses to
  some partiality for getting along alone, but he is evidently not a
  churl, and he opens the store of his experiences under the snow-line
  in Wales, Cumberland, Scotland, and Norway with a skill which will
  make his wanderings acceptable to a much larger number of people than
  can ever climb mountains themselves.”




_Small crown 8vo., cloth, 5s._

AMBULANCE SERMONS:

Being a series of Popular Essays on Medical and Allied Subjects, by J.
A. AUSTIN, M.D.

  “The essays are very readable and convey much instruction on
  elementary topics of therapeutics in a pleasant and agreeable
  form. A reader may learn from them how to cure a cold or manage
  a baby, both difficult things to do; and will find much to help
  him in the treatment of such accidents and ailments as are
  usually considered too slight to warrant a resort to professional
  assistance.”--_Scotsman._

  “It is not merely a doctor’s book for family use, as the writer
  endeavours to explain the physiological principles upon which medical
  treatment rests, although he gives practical applications in the way
  of directions and prescriptions.”--_Glasgow Herald_, Aug. 19th.




_Large crown 8vo., illuminated cover, price 10s. 6d._

THE FORTUNATE LOVERS.

Twenty-seven novels of the Queen of Navarre, translated by ARTHUR
MACHEN. Edited and selected with notes and an introduction by A. MARY
F. ROBINSON. With etched frontispiece by R. JACOMB HOOD.




_In crown 8vo., cloth, price 5s._

THE HEROIC ENTHUSIASTS

(GLI HEROICI FURORI).

An Ethical Poem by GIORDANO BRUNO.

Part the First translated by L. Williams. With an introduction,
compiled chiefly from DAVID LEVI’S “Giordano Bruno o la Religione del
Pensiero.”




_In crown 8vo., cloth, price 5s._

A SOUL’S COMEDY.

By ARTHUR E. WAITE.

  “The spiritual history of Jasper Cartwright, which Mr. Waite has
  narrated in his dramatic poem, ‘A Soul’s Comedy,’ is as complex as
  any student of humanity could desire.... The story, as such, is not
  without interest, though some of the interest is disagreeable.... Yet
  Mr. Waite often writes very forcibly; his imagery is good; and there
  is plenty of idealism in his pages.”--_Scotsman._




_Price 2s. 6d._

THE RUEING OF GUDRUN,

And Other Poems. By the Hon. Mrs. GREVILLE-NUGENT.

  “Mrs. Greville-Nugent has succeeded very fairly well with her
  villanelles and rondeaux, her triolets and sestines, her ballades and
  chants royal.”--_St. James’s Gazette._

  “Where she shows herself at her best is in the French forms of verse,
  which exactly suit her talent.”--_Times._




_In preparation._

THE PRAISE OF ALE;

OR, SONGS, BALLADS, EPIGRAMS, AND ANECDOTES RELATING TO BEER, MALT, AND
HOPS.

Collected and arranged by W. T. MARCHANT.

CONTENTS:--Introduction.--History.--Cards and Wassail
Songs.--Church Ales and Observances.--Whitsun
Ales.--Political.--Harvest.--General.--Barley and Malt.--Hops.--Scotch
Songs.--Local and Dialect.--Trade Songs.--Oxford Songs.--Ale
Wives.--Brewers.--Drinking Clubs and Customs.--Royal and Noble
Drinkers.--Black Beer.--Drinking Vessels.--Warm Ale.--Facts, Scraps,
and Ana.

The volume will contain much curious and out-of-the-way information,
embracing a short sketch of the rise and progress of the art of
brewing in this country; an account of the laws relating to beer,
and the statutes against drunkenness; of the manners and customs of
“malt worms” and mug-house clubs; and the obsolete phraseology of
“toss-pots,” such as “super-nagulum,” “upsee-freeze,” “shoeing horns,”
and “carousing the hunter’s hoop.” The author will pay attention to the
drinking customs more or less connected with the Church--Whitsun Ales,
Bride Ales, Bride Bush, Bride Wain, and the like; the chants of the
wassail-bowl, of the Hock Cart, and the Sheepshearing and Harvest Home
rejoicings--

  “Here’s a health to the Barley mow, brave boys,
  Here’s a health to the Barley mow”--

and Brazenose songs in honour of the brew for which that college is
renowned. Then there are lyrics pertaining to particular sorts and
conditions of men, as the songs of the threshers and tinkers, sailors
and soldiers, and the clubs, which may be considered as forming a class
of themselves. This work will doubtless prove a valuable and pleasant
addition to the library of the student of history and lover of poetry.




_Printed on Whatman’s hand-made paper at the Chiswick Press, price 1s._

IMMODESTY IN ART.

An Expostulation and Suggestion in a Letter to Sir Frederick Leighton,
by FREDERICK GEORGE LEE, LL.D., F.S.A.

  “With the general spirit and drift of Dr. Frederick George Lee’s
  vigorous pamphlet we entirely and heartily concur. On certain
  points of detail we may venture to differ from the author. Not all
  representations of the nude are of necessity immodest: witness, for
  example, the works of such an artist as Mr. G. F. Watts. Conversely,
  there are scores of pictures (chiefly French) which, though they
  do not come under the category of which we speak, are nevertheless
  flagrantly immodest. We deem it unnecessary to discuss the matter
  further, especially as we have already and more than once expressed
  a very definite opinion upon it--in substantial agreement with Dr.
  Lee--in the articles devoted to Art criticism. To that opinion we
  intend to adhere, though in doing so we may stand alone in the public
  press. As to Dr. Lee’s protest, it is, in our opinion, both timely
  and serviceable.”--_John Bull._




_In 2 vols., cloth, price 6s._

THE CURATE’S WIFE.

A Novel by J. E. PANTON, author of “Sketches in Black and White,” “Less
than Kin,” &c.

  “The author of ‘Less than Kin’ has produced in ‘The Curate’s Wife’ a
  story as powerful and full of genuine human interest as has appeared
  for some long time past. This tale of ‘country life’ is realistic in
  the best sense of the word. Faithful as a photograph in all its minor
  details, it shows clear insight into the character of both the sexes,
  and under very varied conditions. The gradual transformation of the
  heroine from a young girl, full of high purposes and enthusiasm,
  into the hopeless drudge who in despair lays herself down to die, is
  painted with an almost Zola-like fidelity. Her tyrant, the popular
  curate, is also a powerful sketch. It is difficult not to think that
  an expiation worked out in the scene of his misdeeds, with people
  who pity while they blame him, is insufficient punishment for so
  contemptible a cur. It would have been, doubtless, more satisfactory
  had Meta conquered in the unequal contest between her well-meaning
  inexperience and her husband’s brutal self-love, but in real life the
  chances would be against her, and this clever novel is, above all, an
  exact picture of certain phases of human nature as it is, and in this
  lies its chief merit.”--_Morning Post._




_In crown 8vo., 2 vols., cloth, price 6s._

THE VALLEY OF SOREK.

By GERTRUDE M. GEORGE, with a Critical Introduction by RICHARD HERNE
SHEPHERD.

  “There is in the book a high and pure moral and a distinct conception
  of character.... The _dramatis personæ_ ... are in reality strongly
  individual, and surprise one with their inconsistencies just as
  real human beings do.... There is something powerful in the way
  in which the reader is made to feel both the reality and the
  untrustworthiness of his (the hero’s) religious fervour, and the
  character of the atheist, Graham, is not less strongly and definitely
  conceived.... It is a work that shows imagination and moral insight,
  and we shall look with much anticipation for another from the same
  hand.”--_Contemporary Review._




_Price 1s._

LOW DOWN.

Wayside Thoughts in Ballad and other Verse. By TWO TRAMPS.

  “This is a collection of short pieces, most of which can fairly be
  considered poetry--no slight merit, as verses run just now. Some of
  the pieces are singularly pathetic and mournful; others, though in
  serious guise, are permeated by quaint humour; and all of them are of
  considerable merit. From the variety and excellence of the contents
  of this bundle of poetical effusions, it is likely to attract a great
  number of readers, and many passages in it are particularly suitable
  for recitation.”--_Army and Navy Gazette_, Aug. 14, 1886.

  “But ‘Low Down,’ as it is called, has the distinction of being
  multi-coloured, each sheet of eight pages consisting of paper of a
  special hue. To turn over the leaves is, in fact, to enjoy a sort of
  kaleidoscopic effect, a glimpse of a literary rainbow. Moreover, to
  complete the peculiarity of the thing, the various poems are printed,
  apparently at haphazard, in large or small type, as the case may be.
  There are those, perhaps, who would take such jokes too seriously,
  and bring them solemnly to the bar of taste, there to be as solemnly
  condemned. But that is scarcely the right spirit in which to regard
  them. There is room in life for the quaint and curious as well as for
  the neat and elegant.”--_Globe._




_2 vols., cloth, price 6s._

FIFINE:

A Novel. By ALFRED T. STORY.

  “The account of the various families is most amusing. Soon after
  Fifine’s arrival her husband reappears, and begins to persecute
  her; but she is saved by a clever stratagem of the Professor’s, one
  that we do not remember having previously come across in a novel.
  It would not be fair to spoil the interest of this story by even
  hinting how Fifine is relieved from her husband, and how all ends
  happily. If the author will only change his style and be content
  to use plain language, he bids fair to be successful in writing
  novels.”--_Saturday Review._

  “Exhibiting genuine ability.”--_Scotsman._

  “Readers will be glad that the morally unpleasant portions of the
  book are briefly narrated.”--_Scotsman._




_Twenty-four pages, wrapper, price 3d._

AN OMITTED INCIDENT IN THE “GREAT NAVAL WAR OF 1887.”

By Lieut.-Colonel W. HOPE, V.C.

  “This witty, sarcastic, and drastic _brochure_ is just what might
  have been expected from a brave, and of late persecuted, soldier.
  It is feigned to be published in 1907; its origin is due to recent
  contributions in the ‘St. James’s Gazette,’ and it is dedicated to
  the Auxiliary Naval and Military Forces of the British Empire.... The
  incident related by Colonel Hope is not without its lessons, and,
  though at times bordering on the region of improbability, is very
  well worth reading.”--_Western Daily Mercury._




_In large crown 8vo., handsomely printed in borders, with original
headpieces, on a special make of toned paper, and bound in best cloth,
the cover designed by_ MATTHEW BELL, _price 10s. 6d._

SEA SONG AND RIVER RHYME

FROM CHAUCER TO TENNYSON.

Selected and edited by ESTELLE DAVENPORT ADAMS. With a New Poem by
ALGERNON CHARLES SWINBURNE. Illustrated with Twelve Original Etchings.

  “The selections have been made with judgment and taste.”--_Glasgow
  Herald._

  “The book is on the whole one of the best of its kind ever
  published.”--_Glasgow Herald._

  “Its illustrations are really exquisite.”--_Glasgow Herald._

  “The editor has made the selection with praiseworthy
  judgment.”--_Morning Post._

  “The value of the work is enhanced by a new poem from the pen of
  Mr. Algernon Charles Swinburne which displays deep and heroic
  feeling.”--_Morning Post._

  “Twelve really exquisite and delicately executed etchings of sea and
  river side accompany and complete this beautiful volume.”--_Morning
  Post._

  “A special anthology delightful in itself and possessing the added
  graces of elegant printing and dainty illustrations.”--_Scotsman._

  “An attractive volume.... Mr. Swinburne’s very spirited and patriotic
  lay appropriately heads the collection, while in addition to this
  new poem the editor has included some judicious selections from the
  poet’s works.”--_Saturday Review._

  “Mrs. Davenport Adams has evidently expended a prodigious amount of
  labour in making the collection comparatively exhaustive.”--_Literary
  World._

  “The volume is got up in the handsomest style, and includes
  a dozen etchings of sea and river scenes, some of which are
  exquisite.”--_Literary World._




_Fourth edition, with engraved frontispiece, in crown 8vo., 5s._

COSMO DE’ MEDICI:

An Historical Tragedy. And other poems. By RICHARD HENGIST HORNE,
author of “Orion.”

  “This tragedy is the work of a poet and not of a playwright. Many of
  the scenes abound in vigour and tragic intensity. If the structure
  of the drama challenges comparison with the masterpieces of the
  Elizabethan stage, it is at least not unworthy of the models which
  have inspired it.”--_Times._




_Demy 18mo., 200 pages, cloth, uncut, price 2s._

WELLERISMS

FROM “PICKWICK” AND “MASTER HUMPHREY’S CLOCK.”

Selected by CHARLES F. RIDEAL. Edited, with an Introduction, by CHARLES
KENT, author of “The Humour and Pathos of Charles Dickens.”


Among the Contents are:--

Sam Weller’s Introduction.--Old Weller at Doctor’s Commons.--Sam
on a Legal Case.--Self-acting Ink.--Out with It.--Sam’s old
White Hat.--Independent Voters.--Proud o’ the Title.--The Weller
Philosophy.--The Twopenny Rope.--Job Trotter’s Tears.--Sam’s Misgivings
as to Mr. Pickwick.--Clear the Way for the Wheelbarrow.--Unpacking the
Lunch Hamper.--Battledore and Shuttlecock.--A True Londoner.--Spoiling
the Beadle.--Old Weller’s Remedy for the Gout.--Sam on Cabs.--Poverty
and Oysters.--Old Weller on Pikes.--Sam’s Power of Suction.--Veller
and Gammon.--Sam as Master of the Ceremonies.--Sam before Mr.
Nupkins.--Sam’s Introduction to Mary and the Cook.--Something
behind the Door.--Sam and Master Bardell.--Good Wishes to Messrs.
Dodson and Fogg.--Sam and his Mother-in-law.--The Shepherd’s Water
Rates.--Stiggins as an Arithmetician.--Sam and the Fat Boy.--Compact
and Comfortable.--Apologue of the Fat Man’s Watch.--Medical
Students.--Sam Subpœnaed.--Disappearance of the “Sassage” Maker.--Sam
Weller’s Valentine.--Old Weller’s Plot.--Tea Drinking at Brick
Lane.--The Soldier’s Evidence Inadmissible.--Sam’s “Wision” Limited.--A
Friendly “Swarry.”--The Killebeate.--Sam and the Surly Groom.--Mr.
Pickwick’s Dark Lantern.--The Little Dirty-faced Man.--Old Weller
Inexorable.--Away with Melancholy.--Post Boys and Donkeys.--A
Vessel.--Old Weller’s Threat.--Sam’s Dismissal of the Fat Boy.--Is she
a “Widder”?--Bill Blinder’s Request.--The Watch-box Boy.

  “Some write well, but he writes Weller.”--_Epigram on Dickens._

  “Some of the best sayings of the immortal Sam and his sportive parent
  are collected here. The book may be taken up for a few minutes with
  the certainty of affording amusement, and it can be carried away in
  the pocket.”--_Literary World._

  “It was a very good idea ... the extracts are very humorous ... here
  nothing is missed.”--_Glasgow Herald._




_One vol., crown 8vo., 400 pages, cloth, price 6s._

A REGULAR PICKLE:

HOW HE SOWED HIS WILD OATS.

By HENRY W. NESFIELD, author of “A Chequered Career.”

  “Mr. Nesfield’s name as an author is established on such a pleasantly
  sound foundation that it is a recognized fact that, in taking up a
  book written by him, the reader is in for a delightful half-hour,
  during which his risible and humorous faculties will be pleasantly
  stimulated. The history of young Archibald Highton Tregauntly,
  whose fortunes we follow from the cradle to when experience is just
  beginning to teach him a few wholesome lessons, is as smart and brisk
  as it is possible to be.”--_Whitehall Review._

  “It will be matter for regret if the brisk and lively style of Mr.
  Nesfield, who at times reminds us of Lever, should blind people
  to the downright wickedness of such a perverted career as is here
  described.”--_Daily Chronicle._




_In crown 8vo., price 6s._

LEICESTER: AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

By FRANCIS W. L. ADAMS.

  “Even M. Zola and Mr. George Moore would find it hard to beat Mr.
  Adams’s description of Rosy’s death. The grimly minute narrative of
  Leicester’s schoolboy troubles, and of his attempt to get a living
  when he is discarded by his guardian, is, too, of such a character
  as to make one regret that Mr. Adams had not put to better use his
  undoubted, though undisciplined powers.”--_Academy._

  “There is unquestionable power in ‘Leicester.’”--_Athenæum._




_In post 8vo., cloth, old style, price 5s._

EBENEZER JONES’S POEMS.

STUDIES OF SENSATION AND EVENT.

Poems by EBENEZER JONES. Edited, Prefaced, and Annotated by RICHARD
HERNE SHEPHERD. With Memorial Notices of the Author by SUMNER JONES and
W. J. LINTON. A new Edition. With Photographic Portrait of the Poet.

  “This remarkable poet affords nearly the most striking instance of
  neglected genius in our modern school of poetry. His poems are full
  of vivid disorderly power.”--DANTE G. ROSSETTI.




_Small 4to., illustrated, cloth, price 5s._

FAMOUS FROSTS AND FROST FAIRS IN GREAT BRITAIN.

Chronicled from the Earliest to the Present Time. By WILLIAM ANDREWS,
F.R.Hist.S.

  “It forms an interesting chronological record of the great frosts
  and frost fairs that have taken place in Great Britain from the
  year A.D. 134 to Christmas, 1886-7, and contains some curious and
  out-of-the-way information on past customs.... There are some
  quaint illustrations representing the old fairs; and also a good
  index.”--_Hull Portfolio._




_In demy 8vo., wrapper, uncut, with extra portrait, price 5s._

“PHIZ”

(HABLOT KNIGHT BROWNE).

A Memoir; including a Selection from his Correspondence and Notes on
his Principal Works. By FRED. G. KITTON. With a Portrait and numerous




_Popular edition, crown 8vo., cloth, price 2s. 6d._

BURMA: AS IT WAS, AS IT IS, AND AS IT WILL BE.

By J. G. SCOTT (“Shway Yoe”).

  “Before going to help to govern them, Mr. Scott has once more written
  on the Burmese.... Mr. Scott claims to have covered the whole ground,
  to show Burma as it was, is, and will be; and as there is nobody
  competent to criticise him except himself, we shall not presume to
  say how far he has succeeded. What, however, may be asserted with
  absolute confidence is, that he has written a bright, readable, and
  useful book.”--_Saturday Review_, March 27.

  “Very lively and readable.”--_Pall Mall Gazette._

  “The author knows what he writes about.”--_St. Stephen’s Review._

  “There is a good deal of curious reading in the book.”--_Literary
  World._

  “The book is amusing and instructing, and Mr. George Redway, the
  publisher, will have done the public and himself a service.”--_Court
  Journal._

  “The print is clear, and the binding in excellent
  taste.”--_Bookseller._

  “Evidently full of genuine information.”--_Society._

  “A handy guide to Burma, as readable as it is accurate.”--_Globe._

  “Mr. Scott should have called this volume ‘A Book for Members of
  Parliament.’”--_London and China Telegraph._

  “The sketch of Burmese cosmogony and mythology is very
  interesting.”--_Nature._

  “A competent historian. He sketches Burma and the Burmans with minute
  fidelity.”--_Daily Chronicle._

  “Probably no Englishman knows Burma better than Mr. J. G.
  Scott.”--_Contemporary Review._

  “An excellent description both of land and people.”--_Contemporary
  Review._

  “Most interesting.”--_St. James’s Gazette._

  “Shway Yoe is a graphic writer ... no one can supply this information
  better than Mr. Scott.”--_Asiatic Quarterly Review._




_Crown 8vo., picture cover, 1s._

DREAMS OF THE DERBY:

Together with many curious tips and omens for other Races, now first
collected and arranged for the printer. By FORTUNATUS.

CONTENTS:--About Sir Peter Teazle--Derby Dreams--Eleanor--Lapdog
and Cadland--Dangerous--Spaniel, winner of the Derby in
1831--Plenipotentiary--Flying Dutchman--Daniel O’Rourke--Caractacus:
Snewing’s Dream--A Hop-Merchant’s Dream--Dreams of
Caractacus--Ellington--A Story of £25,000--Pyrrhus the
First--Macaroni--Cremorne--Derby Sweeps--Dugdale’s Dream--Uncle
John’s Dream--A Club Steward’s Luck--Doncaster’s Derby--Another
of Fred Booth’s Stories--Bluegown--A Waif’s Tips--Blair
Athol--Bloomsbury’s Year--Sham Dreamers--Couronne de Fer--Lottie
Fowler--About Derby and other Tipsters--“Chanticleer’s”
Tip--Executor--Kisber--Miscellaneous--Poetic Prophets of
the Derby--The Oaks and St. Leger--Marie Stuart’s Oaks--St.
Leger--Caller Ou--Hawthornden--Craig Millar’s Year--Knight of St.
George--Achievement--Earlier Dreams and Omens--Dreams of Handicap and
other Race Winners--A Dream of Diophantus--The Fate of Dundee--Another
Dundee Story--See-Saw--Fanciful Backing--Prevision of an Accident--A
Conspiracy of 1843--Flash-in-the-Pan--One Act--Bob Smart’s Glenlivat
Dream--Inveresk--Julius--Tips for the Northumberland Plate--A Clever
Backer--The Chief’s Presentiment--Lowlander’s Victory at Ascot--Gubat.




_Fcap. 8vo., cloth, price 3s. 6d._

THE LOVE AFFAIR:

A DRAMA OF AN ANCIENT DEMOCRACY.

In five Acts, with six Tableaux. By W. W. ALDRED, author of “A Lost
Cause.”

  “There are gleams of nature, of wit, of observation, and even of
  verse, in ‘The Love Affair.’ The style is free from mere verbiage and
  line padding; and it changes with freedom from the old and stately to
  the modern and familiar.”--_Pall Mall Gazette._




_An édition de luxe, in demy 18mo, price 1s._

CONFESSIONS OF AN ENGLISH HACHISH EATER.

  “There is a sort of bizarre attraction in this fantastic little book,
  with its weird, unhealthy imaginations.”--_Whitehall Review._

  “Imagination or some other faculty plays marvellous freaks in this
  little book.”--_Lloyd’s Weekly._

  “A weird little book.... The author seems to have been delighted with
  his dreams, and ... carefully explains how hachish may be made from
  the resin or the common hemp plant.”--_Daily Chronicle._

  “To be added to the literature of what is, after all, a very
  undesirable subject. Weak minds may generate a morbid curiosity if
  stimulated in this direction.”--_Bradford Observer._

  “The stories told by our author have a decidedly Oriental flavour,
  and we would not be surprised if some foolish individuals
  did endeavour to procure some of the drug, with a view to
  experience the sensation described by the writer of this clever
  brochure.”--_Edinburgh Courant._




_In crown 8vo., parchment, price 3s. 6d._

THE ANATOMY OF TOBACCO;

Or, Smoking Methodised, Divided, and Considered after a New Fashion. By
LEOLINUS SILURIENSIS.

  “A very clever and amusing parody of the metaphysical treatises once
  in fashion. Every smoker will be pleased with this volume.”--_Notes
  and Queries._

  “We have here a most excellent piece of fooling, evidently from
  a University pen.... Contains some very clever burlesques of
  classical modes of writing, and a delicious parody of scholastic
  logic.”--_Literary World._

  “A delightful mock essay on the exoteric philosophy of the pipe and
  the pipe bowl ... reminding one alternately of ‘Melancholy’ Burton
  and Herr Teufelsdröch, and implying vast reading and out-of-the-way
  culture on the part of the author.”--_Bookseller._




_Edition limited to 250 copies, each numbered, price 5s._

A WORD FOR THE NAVY.

By ALGERNON CHARLES SWINBURNE.

  “Mr. Swinburne’s new patriotic song, ‘A Word for the Navy,’ is as
  fiery in its denunciation of those he believes to be antagonistic to
  the welfare of the country as was his lyric with which he startled
  the readers of the _Times_ one morning.”--_Athenæum._

_The publisher of this poem is also the sole proprietor of the
copyright; it cannot therefore be included in Mr. Swinburne’s collected
works._




_Crown 8vo., cloth, price 3s. 6d._

LITERARY AND HISTORICAL EDITION OF POE’S RAVEN.

THE RAVEN.

By EDGAR ALLAN POE, with Historical and Literary Commentary by JOHN H.
INGRAM.

  “This is an interesting monograph on Poe’s famous poem. First
  comes the poet’s own account of the genesis of the poem, with a
  criticism, in which Mr. Ingram declines, very properly, we think,
  to accept the history as entirely genuine. Much curious information
  is collected in this essay. Then follows the poem itself, with
  the various readings, and then its after-history; and after these
  ‘Isadore,’ by Albert Pike, a composition which undoubtedly suggested
  the idea of ‘The Raven’ to its author. Several translations are
  given, two in French, one in prose, the other in rhymed verse;
  besides extracts from others, two in German and one in Latin. But
  perhaps the most interesting chapter in the book is that on the
  ‘Fabrications.’”--_Spectator._

  “There is no more reliable authority on the subject of Edgar Allan
  Poe than Mr. John H. Ingram.... The volume is well printed and
  tastefully bound in spotless vellum, and will prove to be a work
  of the greatest interest to all students of English and American
  literature.”--_Publisher’s Circular._




_544 pages, crown 8vo., green cloth boards, price 7s. 6d._

DICKENSIANA.

A Bibliography of the Literature relating to CHARLES DICKENS and his
Writings, compiled by FRED. G. KITTON, author of “‘Phiz’ (Hablot K.
Browne), a Memoir,” and “John Leech, Artist and Humourist,” with a
portrait of “Boz,” from a drawing by SAMUEL LAURENCE.

  “This book is honestly what it pretends to be, and nothing more.
  It is a comprehensive catalogue of all the writings of Mr. Charles
  Dickens, and of a good quantity of books written about him. It
  also contains copious extracts from reviews of his works and from
  sermons on his character. The criticisms are so various, and some
  of them are so much at variance with others, that the reader of
  them can complain of nothing less than a lack of material on which
  to form his judgment, if he has not formed it already, on the claim
  of Mr. Dickens to occupy a front place in the rank of English
  classics. Assertions, if not arguments, are multiplied on either
  side.”--_Saturday Review._

  “Mr. Fred. G. Kitton ... has done his work with remarkable
  thoroughness, and consequently with real success. It is a subject on
  which I may fairly claim to speak, and I may say that all I know,
  and a great deal I did not know, about Dickens is to be found in Mr.
  Kitton’s work.”--“Atlas,” in the _World_.


            “DICKENSIANA.”

    “If with your Dickens-lore you’d make
      Considerable headway,
    The way to be well-read’s to take
      This book brought out by REDWAY.
    ’Tis clear, exhaustive, and compact,
      Both well arranged and written;
    A mine of anecdote and fact,
      Compiled by F. G. KITTON.”--_Punch._




_In preparation._

DICKENS AND THE STAGE.

By T. EDGAR PEMBERTON, author of “Dickens’s London.”

With new portraits of Mr. Irving as “Jingle,” Mr. Toole as “The Artful
Dodger,” and Miss Jennie Lee as “Jo.”




_Uniform with “Hints to Collectors,” price 6s._

THE BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SWINBURNE.

A Bibliographical List arranged in Chronological Order of the Published
Writings in Verse and Prose of ALGERNON CHARLES SWINBURNE (1857-1887).


PREFACE TO THE NEW EDITION.

Born on April 5, 1837, in the year of Queen Victoria’s accession, of
which the whole nation is now celebrating the Jubilee, Algernon Charles
Swinburne to-day attains the jubilee or fiftieth year of his own
life, and may be therefore claimed as an essentially and exclusively
Victorian poet. Of the half-century of life now completed, more than
a quarter of a century has been devoted to fruitful and noble work
in song and to work hardly less fruitful and noble in the field of
criticism.

In issuing this new edition, revised throughout and brought down to
date, of a bibliographical record originally published nearly four
years ago, the compiler cannot deny himself the pleasure of associating
with the date the coincidence, not only of a double jubilee, but also
of a double birthday, viz., his own.

Long distant may the day be when this record, already so goodly an one,
can be made complete in a final sense, and collectors of the books of
our greatest Victorian poet and critic be able to echo Lord Melbourne’s
callous expression of grateful relief that they can bind him up!

As on former occasions, the compiler invites the co-operation of
literary correspondents, and will be grateful to anyone who will
correct an error or supply an omission.




_A few large-paper copies, with India proof portrait, in imperial 8vo.,
parchment-paper covers, price 7s. 6d._

AN ESSAY ON THE GENIUS OF GEORGE CRUIKSHANK.

By “THETA” (WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY), with all the original woodcut
illustrations, a new portrait of CRUIKSHANK, etched by PAILTHORPE, and
a prefatory note on THACKERAY AS AN ART CRITIC, by W. E. CHURCH.

  “Thackeray’s essay ‘On the Genius of George Cruikshank,’ reprinted
  from the _Westminster Review_, is a piece of work well calculated to
  drive a critic of these days to despair. How inimitable is its touch!
  At once familiar and elegant, serious and humorous, enthusiastically
  appreciative, and yet just and clear-sighted; but, above all, what
  the French call _personnel_. It is not the impersonnel reviewer who
  is going through his paces ... it is Thackeray talking to us as few
  can talk--talking with apparent carelessness, even ramblingly, but
  never losing the thread of his discourse or saying a word too much,
  nor ever missing a point which may help to elucidate his subject
  or enhance the charm of his essay.... Mr. W. E. Church’s prefatory
  note on ‘Thackeray as an Art Critic’ is interesting and carefully
  compiled.”--_Westminster Review._

  “As the original copy of the _Westminster_ is now excessively
  rare, this re-issue will, no doubt, be welcomed by
  collectors.”--_Birmingham Daily Mail._

  “The new portrait of Cruikshank by F. W. Pailthorpe is a clear, firm
  etching.”--_The Artist._




_Printed on hand-made paper and bound in vellum, crown 8vo., price 6s._

HINTS TO COLLECTORS OF ORIGINAL EDITIONS OF THE WORKS OF

WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY.

By CHARLES PLUMPTRE JOHNSON.

  “... A guide to those who are great admirers of Thackeray, and
  are collecting first editions of his works. The dainty little
  volume, bound in parchment and printed on hand-made paper, is very
  concise and convenient in form; on each page is an exact copy of
  the title-page of the work mentioned thereon, a collation of pages
  and illustrations, useful hints on the differences in editions,
  with other matters indispensable to collectors.... Altogether it
  represents a large amount of labour and experience.”--_Spectator._

  “... Mr. Johnson has evidently done his work with so much loving
  care that we feel entire confidence in his statements. The prices
  that he has affixed in every case form a valuable feature of
  the volume, which has been produced in a manner worthy of its
  subject-matter.”--_Academy._

  “The list of works which Mr. Johnson supplies is likely to be of high
  interest to Thackeray collectors. His preliminary remarks go beyond
  this not very narrow circle, and have a value for all collectors of
  modern works.”--_Notes and Queries._

  “... It is choicely printed at the Chiswick Press; and the author,
  Mr. Charles Plumptre Johnson, treats the subject with evident
  knowledge and enthusiasm.... It is not a Thackeray Bibliography,
  but a careful and minute description of the first issues, with
  full collations and statement of the probable cost.... Mr. Johnson
  addresses collectors, but is in addition a sincere admirer of the
  greatest satirist of the century.”--_Book Lore._




_Printed on hand-made paper, and bound in vellum, crown 8vo., price 6s._

HINTS TO COLLECTORS OF ORIGINAL EDITIONS OF THE WORKS OF

CHARLES DICKENS.

By CHARLES PLUMPTRE JOHNSON.

  “Enthusiastic admirers of Dickens are greatly beholden to Mr. C.
  P. Johnson for his useful and interesting ‘Hints to Collectors of
  Original Editions of the Works of Charles Dickens’ (Redway). The book
  is a companion to the similar guide to collectors of Thackeray’s
  first editions, is compiled with the like care, and produced with the
  like finish and taste.”--_Saturday Review._

  “This is a sister volume to the ‘Hints to Collectors of First
  Editions of Thackeray,’ which we noticed a month or two ago.
  The works of Dickens, with a few notable ‘Dickensiana,’ make up
  fifty-eight numbers, ... and Mr. Johnson has further augmented the
  present volume with a list of thirty-six plays founded on Dickens’s
  works, and another list of twenty-three published portraits of
  Dickens. As we are unable to detect any slips in his work, we must
  content ourselves with thanking him for the correctness of his
  annotations. It is unnecessary to repeat our praise of the elegant
  _format_ of these books.”--_Academy._




_Only 100 copies printed, foolscap 8vo., printed on hand-made paper at
the Chiswick Press, and bound in parchment by Burn to form a companion
volume to “Tamerlane,” price 10s. 6d._

BEAUTY AND THE BEAST;

OR, A ROUGH OUTSIDE WITH A GENTLE HEART.

By CHARLES LAMB. Now first reprinted from the original edition of 1811,
with Preface and Notes by RICHARD HERNE SHEPHERD.




_Price 21s._

TAMERLANE,

And Other Poems. By EDGAR ALLAN POE.

First published at Boston in 1827, and now first republished from a
unique copy of the original edition, with a preface by RICHARD HERNE
SHEPHERD.

_100 copies printed. Two copies only remain._




_An édition de luxe in demy 18mo., price 1s._

JOHN LEECH, ARTIST AND HUMOURIST.

A Biographical Sketch by FRED. G. KITTON. New edition, revised. The
only published biography of JOHN LEECH.

  “In the absence of a fuller biography we cordially welcome Mr.
  Kitton’s interesting little sketch.”--_Notes and Queries._

  “The multitudinous admirers of the famous artist will find
  this touching monograph well worth careful reading and
  preservation.”--_Daily Chronicle._

  “The very model of what such a memoir should be.”--_Graphic._




_In large 8vo., uniform with the new “Standard” edition of Thackeray’s
Works, price 10s. 6d._

SULTAN STORK,

And other Stories and Sketches by WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY
(1829-44), now first collected, to which is added the Bibliography of
THACKERAY, revised and considerably enlarged.

  The _Athenæum_ says:--“Admirers of Thackeray may be grateful for a
  reprint of ‘Sultan Stork.’”

  “The remains of Thackeray are now in the hands of the
  resurrectionists. Writers in the _Athenæum_ have been gloating
  over them, and Mr. George Redway, a London publisher of peculiar
  and quaint literature, has issued a handsome volume of Thackerayan
  fragments.”--_Glasgow Herald._

  “Thackeray collectors, however, have only to be told that none of
  the pieces now printed appear in the two volumes recently issued by
  Messrs. Smith, Elder, and Co., in order to make them desire their
  possession. They will also welcome the revision of the Bibliography,
  since it now presents a complete list, arranged in chronological
  order, of Thackeray’s published writings in prose and verse, and also
  of his sketches and drawings.”--_Daily Chronicle._

  “‘Sultan Stork’ ... which purports to be told by Scheherazade on the
  thousand and second of the ‘Arabian Nights,’ is undoubtedly the work
  of Mr. Thackeray, and is quite pretty and funny enough to have found
  a place in his collected miscellanies. ‘Dickens in France’ is as good
  in its way as Mr. Thackeray’s analysis of Alexander Dumas’ ‘Kean’
  in the ‘Paris Sketch-Book.’... There are other slight sketches in
  this volume which are evidently by Mr. Thackeray, and several of his
  _obiter dicta_ in them are worth preserving.... We do not assume to
  fix Mr. Thackeray’s rank or to appraise his merits as an art critic.
  We only know that, in our opinion, few of his minor writings are so
  pleasant to read as his shrewd and genial comments on modern painters
  and paintings.”--_Saturday Review._




_In large crown 8vo., price 3s. 6d._

SITHRON, THE STAR STRICKEN.

Translated (_Ala bereket Allah_) from an ancient Arabic Manuscript, by
SALEM BEN UZÄIR, of Bassora.

  “This very remarkable book, ‘Sithron,’ ... is a bold, pungent,
  audacious satire upon the ancient religious belief of the Jews.... No
  one can read the book without homage to the force, the tenderness,
  and the never-failing skill of its writer.”--_St. James’s Gazette._




_Handsomely printed and tastefully bound, 436 pages, large crown 8vo.,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d._

ESSAYS IN THE STUDY OF FOLK-SONGS.

By the COUNTESS EVELYN MARTINENGO-CESARESCO.

  “A pleasant volume on a pleasant topic.... The Countess, with her
  sincere enthusiasm for what is simple, passionate, and sensuous in
  folk-song, and with her lucid and unaffected style, well understands
  the mode in which the educated collector should approach the shy
  singers or story-tellers of Europe.... Her introduction is perhaps,
  to the scientific student of popular culture, the best part of her
  book.... Next to her introduction, perhaps her article on ‘Death in
  Folk-Poetry’ is the most serviceable essay in the volume.... ‘Folk
  Lullabies’ is perhaps the most pleasant of the remaining essays in
  the admirable volume, a volume remarkable for knowledge, sympathy,
  and good taste.”--Extracts from a page notice in the _Saturday
  Review_, April 24, 1886.

  “This is a very delightful book, full of information and thoughtful
  suggestions. It deals principally with the Folk-songs of Southern
  peoples, Venetian, Sicilian, Armenian, Provence, and Greek Songs
  of Calabria, but there are several essays devoted to the general
  characteristics of Folk-Poetry, such as the influence of Nature, the
  Inspiration of Death, the idea of Fate, the numerous songs connected
  with the rites of May, Folk-Lullabies, and Folk-Dirges. There is also
  an interesting essay on what is called the White Paternoster, and
  Children’s Rhyming Prayers. This is one of the most valuable, and
  certainly one of the most interesting, books which have been written
  on a subject which has of late years been exciting an ever-increasing
  attention, and which involves many important problems connected with
  the early history of the human race.”--_Standard._

  “‘Folk-Songs,’ traditional popular ballads, are as tempting to me
  as King Charles’s head to Mr. Dick. But interesting as the topic
  of the origin and diffusion and literary merit of these poems may
  be--poems much the same in all European countries--they are rather
  caviare to the general. The Countess Martinengo-Cesaresco is, or
  should be, a well-known authority among special students of this
  branch of literature, to whom I heartily commend her ‘Essays in
  the Study of Folk-Songs.’ The Countess is, perhaps, most familiar
  with Southern _volksleider_, as of Greece, Italy, and Sicily. Her
  book is a treasure-house of Folk-lore of various kinds, and the
  matter is handled with much poetic appreciation and a good deal of
  learning.”--_Daily News._

  “A kind of popular introduction to the study of Folk-lore.”--_St.
  James’s Gazette._




_About 500 pages, crown 8vo., cloth, price 10s. 6d._

THE HISTORY OF THE FORTY VEZIRS;

OR, THE STORY OF THE FORTY MORNS AND EVES.

Written in Turkish by SHEYKH-ZADA, and now done into English by E. J.
W. GIBB, M.R.A.S.

  “The interest of this compilation is naturally not to be compared to
  that aroused by the ever-fresh ‘Thousand and One Nights;’ but it has
  had high reputation among particular admirers, and the gentleman to
  whom we are indebted for this English version--apparently the most
  complete in any language of Western Europe--merits the thanks of the
  reading public for the work performed.”--_Athenæum._

  “A delightful addition to the wealth of Oriental stories available to
  English readers is ‘The History of the Forty Vezirs’ (Redway), done
  into English by Mr. E. J. W. Gibb, from the Turkish of Sheykh-Zāda.
  The collection comprises 112 stories. To the forty told by the
  Lady and those of the forty Vezirs, Mr. Gibb has added four from
  Belletête, twenty from a MS. in the India Office, six from Dr.
  Behrnauer’s translation, and two from a MS. recently purchased by
  Mr. Quaritch. The results of collation are admirably summarized in a
  comparative table that analyzes the contents of the various texts.
  In the preface Mr. Gibb deals with the bibliography of the French
  and German versions, and indicates some of the more interesting
  parallels suggested by those old stories in the ‘Gesta Romanorum,’
  the ‘Decameron,’ the ‘Thousand and One Nights,’ the ‘Mabinogion,’
  and other treasures of old-world fable. In short, Mr. Gibb has
  considerately done everything to help the reader to an intelligent
  appreciation of this charming book.”--_Saturday Review._

  “In my opinion the version is definite and final. The style is light
  and pleasant, with the absolutely necessary flavour of quaintness;
  and the notes, though short and few, are sufficient and satisfactory.
  Mr. Gibb does not write only _ad clerum_; and thus he has been
  obliged to ‘leave in the obscurity of an Eastern language’ three
  whole tales (pp. 353, 366, and 399), No. 2 being exceedingly witty
  and fescennine. He has the good sense, when he supplants a broad
  joke by a _banal_ English phrase, to subjoin in a note the original
  Turkish (pp. 109, 140, 199, 215, and 382). Yet some of the _novelle_
  are highly spiced enough: see the amorous princess in the Eleventh
  Wazir’s story (pp. 381-3); and the truly Turkish and unspeakable
  version of modest Æsop’s ‘Countryman and his Son.’ Of the less
  Milesian I would especially commend the story of the Venus-star and
  the magical angels, Harut and Marut (p. 167); the explanation of the
  proverb, ‘Take counsel of the cap that is on thy head’ (p. 362),
  and the Thirty-seventh Wazir’s tale, showing why ‘men have beaten
  their wives since the days of Saint Adam’ (p. 349).”--Sir RICHARD F.
  BURTON, in the _Academy_.




_Large post 8vo., cloth, uncut, price 7s. 6d._

THE BLOOD COVENANT:

A Primitive Rite and its Bearings on Scripture, by H. CLAY TRUMBULL,
D.D.

  “An admirable study of a primitive belief and custom. One of the
  utmost importance in considering the growth of civilization.”

  “A profound interest will be aroused by the keenness and clearness
  of vision, no less than by the wealth of learning, by means of
  which he follows a line of research, tracing through this one rite
  the cannibalism of savages to a religious impulse not essentially
  different in its symbolical aspect from one of the most vital
  principles of Christianity. In the details of the work will be found
  much to attract the attention of the curious. Its fundamental and
  essential value, however, is for the student of religions; and all
  such will be grateful to Dr. Trumbull for this solid, instructive,
  and enlightening work.”--_Scotsman._




_Demy 8vo., cloth, price 10s. 6d._

SERPENT-WORSHIP AND OTHER ESSAYS,

With a Chapter on Totemism, by C. STANILAND WAKE, Member of the
Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland.

Contents:--Rivers of Life--Phallism in Ancient Religions--The Origin
of Serpent-Worship--The Adamites--The Descendants of Cain--Sacred
Prostitution--Marriage among Primitive Peoples--Marriage by
Capture--Development of the Family--The Social Position of Woman as
affected by “Civilisation”--Spiritism and Modern Spiritualism--Totems
and Totemism--Man and the Ape.




_In demy 8vo., choicely printed, cloth, or Japanese parchment, price
7s. 6d._

PRIMITIVE SYMBOLISM

As illustrated in Phallic Worship; or, The Reproductive Principle, by
the late HODDER M. WESTROPP. With an Introduction by MAJOR-GENERAL
FORLONG, author of “Rivers of Life.”

  “This work is a _multum in parvo_ of the growth and spread of
  Phallicism, as we commonly call the worship of nature or fertilizing
  powers. I felt, when solicited to enlarge and illustrate it on the
  sudden death of the lamented author, that it would be desecration
  to touch so complete a compendium by one of the most competent and
  soundest thinkers who have written on this world-wide faith. None
  knew better or saw more clearly than Mr. Westropp that in this oldest
  symbolism and worship lay the foundations of all the goodly systems
  we call Religions.”--J. G. R. FORLONG.

  “A well-selected repertory of facts illustrating this subject, which
  should be read by all who are interested in the study of the growth
  of religions.”--_Westminster Review._




_In crown 8vo., 676 pages, cloth, price 10s. 6d._

MYTHS, SCENES, AND WORTHIES OF SOMERSET.

By MRS. E. BOGER.

The author has somewhat departed from her original intention of making
a collection of the myths and legends of Somerset. Unwittingly fiction
glided into fact, and the story developed into history, and it was
found difficult, if not impossible, to define their respective limits.
For instance, though Arthur is an impalpable and shadowy personage,
while Alfred is a most real and substantial one, yet the mingling of
truth and fable in the story of each--as connected with Somerset--is
only one of degree; and even in later times, myth is so intertwined
with the lives of St. Dunstan, of Sir John de Courcy, of Roger Bacon,
&c., that, if one tries rudely to tear away the accretions of myth and
fable, a maimed and distorted picture is all that is left.

Among the legends of Saints are some of rare beauty, full of earnest
thought and quaint suggestiveness. It has been endeavoured to show
that, instead of being, as they are generally and conveniently
classed--with a charming simplicity--as the “lying inventions of the
monks,” they are in most cases but the loving exaggerations of a simple
age, to which every unexplained wonder was a miracle.

Some of the articles may be thought to be of undue length; but St.
Dunstan is a character so strangely misrepresented in most histories,
that the author was anxious to prove incontestably his claim to be one
of the worthiest of the worthies of Somerset; again, as to the unhappy
Duke of Monmouth, though the story of his rebellion is of necessity
taken chiefly from Macaulay, the story of his quasi-royal progress is
little known, and Macaulay studiously omits any palliating or softening
circumstance in the terrible record of the battle of Sedgmoor and the
Bloody Assize.




_In Preparation._

HOW TO TRACE A PEDIGREE;

OR, THE SCIENCE OF HERALDRY EXPLAINED.

By CHARLES WORTHY, Esq., late of the College of Arms.

Introductory.--Science of Heraldry, Coats of Arms, Varieties
of Arms, Partition Lines, Tinctures, Furs, Ordinaries, &c.,
&c.--Common Charges, Lions and other Beasts, Heraldic Monsters, &c.,
&c.--Miscellaneous Objects Alphabetically arranged.--Technical Terms
used in Heraldry.--The Rules of Blazon.--The Marshalling of Arms,
Hatchments, &c., &c.--Crests, Mottoes, Helmets, Mantlings, Supporters,
and Coronets.--The Rules of Precedence.--Peers, Baronets, Knights,
Esquires, Gentlemen.--Advice to Pedigree Hunters, How to Trace a
Pedigree, Parochial Registers, Public Documents, Probate Court, Fees,
&c., &c.--The College of Arms, Officers of Arms, Heraldic Records,
Heraldic Fees, Grants of Arms, Change of Name.--Liveries, with some
Remarks upon Cockades, and those who are entitled to use them.--General
Remarks, Drawing and Illuminating, Taxes in respect of Arms.




_Handsomely printed on antique paper, and tastefully bound, price 2s.
6d._

POPE JOAN

(THE FEMALE POPE).

A Historical Study. Translated from the Greek of Emmanuel Rhoïdis. With
Preface by CHARLES HASTINGS COLLETTE.

  “When Dr. Döllinger wrote to the effect that ‘the subject of Pope
  Joan has not yet lost interest,’ he said no more than the truth.
  The probability is that the topic will always have its attractions
  for the lovers of the curiosities of history. Mr. Baring-Gould has
  declared that ‘the whole story of Pope Joan is fabulous, and rests
  on not a single historical foundation;’ but others are not so firmly
  convinced in the matter, and at all times there are those who are
  anxious to investigate singular traditions.... Rhoïdis discusses
  the topic with much learning and ingenuity, and Mr. Collette’s
  introduction is full of information.”--_Globe._

  “It is interesting enough, and is accompanied by curious
  illustrations.”--_Notes and Queries._




_In crown 8vo., about 450 pages, with illustrations, and
historico-symbolical binding, price 7s. 6d._

THE REAL HISTORY OF THE ROSICRUCIANS.

Founded on their own Manifestoes, and on Facts and Documents collected
from the Writings of Initiated Members, by ARTHUR EDWARD WAITE, author
of “The Mysteries of Magic: a Digest of the Writings of Eliphas Levi.”

Influence of the Secret Societies.--Derivations of the name
Rosicrucian.--On the State of Mystical Philosophy in Germany at the
close of the Sixteenth Century.--The Prophecy of Paracelsus.--The
Fama Fraternitatis of the Meritorious Order of the Rosy Cross.--The
Confession of the Rosicrucian Fraternity.--The Chymical Marriage of
Christian Rosencreutz.--The Connection of the Rosicrucian Claims with
those of Alchemy and Magic.--On the Antiquity of the Rosicrucian
Fraternity.--Theories as to the Authorship of the Rosicrucian
Manifestoes.--Progress of Rosicrucianism in Germany.--Rosicrucian
Apologists: Michael Maier, Robert Fludd, Thomas Vaughan,
&c.--Rosicrucianism in France.--Connection between the Rosicrucians and
Freemasons.--Modern Rosicrucian Societies, &c., &c.

In the present work every important and available fact has been
carefully collected, and the manifestoes and other documents of the
Fraternity are republished in revised versions. The Rosicrucians as
represented by themselves are, therefore, offered to English readers
for the first time in the literature of the subject. The task has
been performed by a sympathetic but impartial writer, purged from the
bias of any particular theory, and above all uncontaminated by the
pretension to superior knowledge, which claimants have never been able
to substantiate.




_A few copies only remain of the following important work, by the
author of “The Rosicrucians.”_

PHALLICISM:

Its connection with the Rosicrucians and the Gnostics, and its
Foundation in Buddhism, by HARGRAVE JENNINGS, author of “The
Rosicrucians.”

  “This book is written _ad clerum_, and appeals to the scholar only,
  and not to the multitude. It is a masterly and exhaustive account
  of that worship of the creative powers of nature which, under
  various names, has prevailed among all the nations of antiquity and
  of mediæval times, alike in Egypt and India, in Italy and Gaul,
  among the Israelites of old, and among the primitive inhabitants
  of Great Britain and Ireland ... a most valuable auxiliary to
  all who care to pursue such a subject of inquiry, a subject for
  which Mr. Jennings is the better fitted on account of his long and
  intimate acquaintance with the Rosicrucians, their tenets, and their
  practices.”--_Antiquarian Magazine and Bibliographer._

  “Unpleasant as this subject is, we are quite prepared to agree
  that in its scientific aspect, as a form of human worship, it has
  considerable importance.... Mr. Jennings deals almost entirely
  with the subjective part of his inquiry, and he has evidently
  made a considerable amount of research into the literature of
  early religions.... He has produced something which is, at
  all events, worth the attention of the student of comparative
  psychology.”--_Antiquary._

  “This book ... is profoundly learned, and gives evidence on each page
  of deep thought, intense powers of research, clear and unmistakable
  reasoning, and thorough mastership of the subject. The appendix
  also contains much very curious matter which will interest those
  who desire to study the subject under all its different aspects and
  bearings.”--_Reliquary._




_In small 4to., bound in cloth, price 3s. 6d._

THE DANCE OF DEATH

In Painting and in Print, by T. TINDALL WILDRIDGE. With Woodcuts.

“The origin of the Dance has been conjectured to have been one of the
religious mysteries, moralities, or dramatic exhibitions which at the
same time supplied a comedy and a homily. There certainly was an acted
processional dance in which the players one by one were snatched away;
Cervantes in ‘Don Quixote’ mentions it as the ‘Cortes of Death.’ ...
The earliest painting of the Dance of Death is said to be that at
Basil, though it is probable that many of which we have information
are as old. The German and Swiss bridges, so often, too, the site of
religious buildings, were decorated with the representation; an example
is upon the Pont des Moulins leading into Lucerne, where is a fine
Dance, restored within the last few years.” The blocks illustrating
this work are a series found in a northern printing office many years
ago. They seem to be of considerable age, and are somewhat close copies
of Holbein’s designs.




_Monthly, 1s. Volumes I. to XI., now ready, price 7s. 6d. each._

WALFORD’S ANTIQUARIAN MAGAZINE AND BIBLIOGRAPHICAL REVIEW.

Edited by G. W. REDWAY, F.R.Hist.S.

The following are the Contents of the first Four Numbers published
this year. ARTICLES:--Domesday Book.--Frostiana.--Some Kentish
Proverbs.--The Literature of Almanacks.--“Madcap Harry” and Sir
John Popham.--Tom Coryate and his Crudities.--Notes on John Wilkes
and Boswell’s Life of Johnson.--Rarities in the Locker-Lampson
Collection.--A Day with the late Mr. Edward Solly.--The Defence of
England in the 16th Century.--The Ordinary from Mr. Thomas Jenyns’
Booke of Armes.--A Forgotten Cromwellian Tomb.--Visitation of the
Monasteries in the reign of Henry VIII.--The Rosicrucians.--The
Seillière Library.--A Lost Work.--Sir Bevis of Hampton.--More Kentish
Proverbs.--Cromwell and the Saddle Letter of Charles I.--Recent
Discoveries at Rome.--Folk-Lore of British Birds.--An Old Political
Broadside.--Notes for Coin Collectors.--Higham Priory.--Byways of
Periodical Literature.--How to Trace a Pedigree.--The Curiosities
of Ale.--The Books and Bookmen of Reading.--The Language of the
Law.--Words, Idioms, &c., of the Vulgar.--Notes on Old Chelsea.--The
Romans in Cumbria.

COLLECTANEA.--Early Italian Prints.--Tercentenary of the
Potato.--Chaucer Discovery.--Sir John Soane’s Museum.--Copyright in
Government Publications.--Pausanias.--The Loan of Manuscripts.--Paper
Making in 1588.--Portraits of Charles Dickens.--Hopton Castle.--A
very Ancient Watch.--The Value of Antiquarian Study.--Curious
Forestry Privilege.--A “Factory.”--Thimbles Old and New.--Mrs.
Glasse’s Cookery Book.--A Bucks Estate.--Chalfont St. Giles.--Greek
Coins.--Shakespearian Literature.--Geography in the Sixteenth
Century.--Welsh Place Names.--Japanese Art.--Duelling in
1760.--Shelleyana.--English Archers.--Oriental Porcelain.--South
Italian Folk-Lore.--Serpent-Lore.--Modern Witches.--The Domesday
Plough.--A Bishop of the Olden Time.--Historical Treasures in
the Upsala Cathedral.--The Witches Ladder.--Old Prayer-Book.--A
Relic of James II.--Pontefract and Ripon.--Old Shoes.--Love
Charms.--County Families.--A Roman Fire Brigade.--Parish
Registers.--Border Raiding.--Peasant Proprietors.--Queen
Mary’s Tree.--The Turks and Persians as Book-lovers.--Epitaph
of John Ruskin’s Parents.--Quakers.--“Yankee” and the “Stars
and Stripes.”--Gipsies.--The Royal Academy.--Chigwell Church,
Essex.--Printers’ Errors.--A Village Club.--An Historical Fishery.--A
Survival.--A Cock Match.--Early Publishing.--Pancakes at Westminster
School.--The Archbishop’s Palace at Croydon.--The Art of the Saracens
in Egypt.--The Early Custody of Domesday Book.

CORRESPONDENCE.--The late Bishop Hannington’s Ancestry.--A Reader
of Curious Books.--Throwing the Dart in Cork Harbour.--The De la
Poles.--The Family of John Hampden.--The “Olla Podrida” and T.
Monro.--Life of Bertram Montfichet.--Magdalen College, Oxford.--Book
Bound in a Murderer’s Skin.--A Forgotten Society.--Latin Verses by Dr.
Johnson.--“Merchet” and the “Jus Primæ Noctis.”--Hanna, Hanet, and
Wallace.--Another Book Bound in a Murderer’s Skin.--Humorous Portrait
of Charles Dickens.--Beating Boys at Parish Boundaries.--Destruction of
National Antiquities.

REVIEWS.--OBITUARY MEMOIRS.--MEETINGS OF LEARNED SOCIETIES.--NEWS AND
NOTES.




_Published periodically, four numbers out, 1s. each._

JOURNAL OF THE BACON SOCIETY.

Contents:--Bacon as Viewed by his Biographers--Mr. Donnelly’s
Shakespeare Cipher--Did Francis Bacon write Shakespeare?--Hamlet’s Note
Book--Shakespeare the Lawyer; Bacon the Poet--Bacon and Shakespeare
on the Solace derived from Contemplation--What Lawyers say about the
Law in Shakespeare--Shakespeare the Lawyer; Bacon the Poet, Part
II.--Higgins on the Bacon-Shakespeare Controversy--Parallelism--Mr.
Donnelly and the Alleged Cipher--England’s Helicon.




_Monthly. Annual Subscription, 5s._

THE EAST ANGLIAN;

OR, NOTES AND QUERIES ON SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH THE COUNTIES OF
SUFFOLK, CAMBRIDGE, ESSEX, AND NORFOLK.

Edited by C. H. EVELYN WHITE, F.S.A.




_Monthly. Annual Subscription, 8s._

THE WESTERN ANTIQUARY;

OR, NOTEBOOK FOR DEVON, CORNWALL, AND SOMERSET.

Containing Original Articles, Notes, Queries, and Replies. Illustrated.
Edited by W. H. K. WRIGHT, F.R.H.S.




_Elegantly printed on Dutch paper, and bound in parchment-paper cover,
price 1s._

THE SCOPE AND CHARM OF ANTIQUARIAN STUDY.

By JOHN BATTY, F.R.Hist.S.

  “It forms a useful and entertaining guide to a beginner in historical
  researches.”--_Notes and Queries._

  “The author has laid it before the public in a most inviting,
  intelligent, and intelligible form, and offers every incentive to
  the study in every department, including Ancient Records, Manorial
  Court-Rolls, Heraldry, Painted Glass, Mural Paintings, Pottery,
  Church Bells, Numismatics, Folk-Lore, &c., to each of which the
  attention of the student is directed. The pamphlet is printed on a
  beautiful modern antique paper, appropriate to the subject of the
  work.”--_Brighton Examiner._

  “Mr. Batty, who is one of those folks Mr. Dobson styles ‘gleaners
  after time,’ has clearly and concisely summed up, in the space of
  a few pages, all the various objects which may legitimately be
  considered to come within the scope of antiquarian study.”--_Academy._




_In preparation, 2 vols., 8vo._

THE WHITE KING;

OR, ENGLAND AND ENGLISHMEN IN THE REIGN OF CHARLES I.

By W. H. DAVENPORT ADAMS.

This work opens with a sketch of Charles’s life, and goes on to deal
with the leading statesmen, courtiers, authors, artists, &c. The
worthies of Charles’s reign--apart from the Civil War, which is not
dealt with--are, to many readers, unfamiliar, and it has been the aim
of the author to throw light on these more obscure characters and
aspects of the earlier portion of the seventeenth century.




_In preparation, price 1s._

THE SHAKESPEARE CLASSICAL DICTIONARY;

Or, Mythological Allusions in the Plays of Shakespeare explained, for
the Use of Schools and Shakespeare Reading-Societies. By H. M. SELBY.


[Illustration]

CHISWICK PRESS:--C. WHITTINGHAM AND CO., TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE.




  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:

    1. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A CATALOGUE OF REMARKABLE BOOKS
PUBLISHED BY MR. GEORGE REDWAY (1887) ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
